so we are going to start with the second
chapter of module three and that name of
the chapter this subsystem design
processes so in this chapter what we are
going to learn from this chapter is that
what our designer wants so this chapter
is basically the start of the designing
processes in Walled how and what is the
thought process to our designer okay we
are after getting the specifications in
the of the design that is system okay so
you need to understand that from now on
whatever it may be the design it will be
termed as a system it will be termed as
a system so before we even start
designing we need to think like
designers okay so there are certain
criterias that the designers followed
before even the start of the design so
before even touching their tools alright
or connecting their MOSFETs they first
of all think what has to be done if this
is the specification let's suppose the
client has given the specification of
this black box one so before even and
some specifications that client will be
mentioning that I need these specs okay
so before even blindly following that
specification and making this black box
one the designer has to think okay how
come this black box one or this design
that is the system so any design as I
have already said any design that will
be given whether it's a full adder or a
processor or complete design is going to
be termed as a system is going to be
termed as a system so before even after
getting these two things that okay the
name of the design and the
specifications now in processors also
you need to be mentioning what kind of a
processor you want depending on the
criteria whether you are going to make
it into a laptop or a mobile or a
smartphone whatever it is you
need to mention it according accordingly
or they will be giving you the design
all right
so though that will be the required
specifications are designed without any
specification is not going to happen so
even after getting the specification a
designer cannot simply blindly go into
this okay so first of all we are going
to learn about some general
considerations okay so after we have
covered general considerations then we
will be moving forward with the design
of a arithmetic processor okay then in
the processor what is the next way of a
big thing that is the ALU and in Lu what
is going to be the next design like that
okay
so basically in this chapter we are
going step by step so first of all we
will be dealing with some general
considerations then we will look into
the design of 4-bit microprocessor then
from there we will be looking inside a
4-bit ALU then from there we will be
looking into a 4-bit shifter so after
understanding some concepts of how to
start a design we will look inside the
process another processor is our system
okay this is my final design in order to
make this processor you need to have
many other components as I have already
discussed this point several times
on the board the flow chart that I have
discussed every time that if the design
given is a processor I need to know what
are the components inside of that if the
component names I know then inside that
component water the sub components are
there so inside the cell you again there
will be one shifter so this is my system
this is my system this is my final
design in order to get this final design
I have to go buy this so basically this
is the sub component of the component of
my system and this becomes my sub system
so finally in this chapter what are we
directly designing we are designing a
4-bit shifter if this is the case that
is why the name of the chapter is given
as subsystem design processes at not
simply system getting the point all
right so let us start with the general
considerations now before we even look
into the general considerations for a
designer we need to know three basic
terms related to design we need to know
three basic terms related to design okay
the three related terms are the
regularity okay so we'll start with
regularity so what is this concept this
reckoned irregularity concepts concept
dictates that the design has to be that
the design has to be hierarchical
okay it has to be hierarchical what do
you understand by the hierarchy
hierarchy that is if this is my black
box one okay if this is my black box one
it is made up of x and y so in order to
complete the black box one first I will
design X second I will design Y third I
will interconnect x and y to get black
box one so this is my hierarchy okay so
it has to be hierarchical that means a
larger system can be broken down into
simple and similar blocks okay simple
and similar blocks larger system can be
broken down into simple and similar
block blocks when I am writing broken
that doesn't mean you will break it open
here the term broken means it can be the
larger system should comprise or
composed of simple and similar blocks
same compose or comprise therefore I
have written broken broken doesn't mean
you will break it open okay it doesn't
work like that
so in regular here what example that are
given that there are two separate blocks
two separate blocks okay x and y now
while I'm designing X obviously X will
be made up of certain other components
inside of X
right so